Understanding The Problem Domain Is The Hardest Part Of Programming
What is the hardest thing about writing code?

There are many common answers to this question:

Learning a new technology
Naming things
Testing your code
Debugging
Fixing bugs
Making software maintainable
The list goes on and on.

But as I reflect back on my programming career, and I’ve conversed with many new programmers that are learning the craft, I’ve found the single hardest thing about programming is learning the problem domain.
Objects group together a set of variables and functions to create a model
of a something you would recognize from the real world. In an object,
variables and functions take on new names.
IN AN OBJECT: VARIABLES BECOME
IN AN OBJECT: FUNCTIONS BECOME
KNOWN AS PROPERTIES
KNOWN AS METHODS
If a variable is part of an object, it is called a
If a function is part of an object, it is called a method.
property. Properties te ll us about the object, such as
Methods represent tasks that are associated with
the name of a hotel or the number of rooms it has.
the object. For example, you can check how many
Each individual hotel might have a different name
rooms are available by subtracting the number of
and a different number of rooms.
booked rooms from the total number of rooms
@
FUNCTIONS, METHODS & OBJECTS
PROPERTIES: KEY VALUE
name string
rooms number
booked number
gym Boolean
room Types array
METHODS: checkAva i l ability function
As you will see over the next few pages, this is just
one of the ways you can create an object.
Programmers use a lot of name/value pairs:
• HTML uses attribute names and values.
• CSS uses property names and values.
In JavaScript:
• Variables have a name and you can assign them a
value of a string, number, or Boolean.
• Arrays have a name and a group of values. (Each
item in an array is a name/value pair because it
has an index number and a value.)
• Named functions have a name and value that is a
set of statements to run if the function is called.
• Objects consist of a set of name/value pairs
(but the names are referred to as keys).
FUNCTIONS
